I think everybody has one so good
morning everyone if there is still
someone who needs a copy of the 37
practices of bodhisattvas just let us
know by raising your hand and we can
bring you one and we'll begin our
opening prayers and the 37 practices of
bodhisattvas starting on page 2 no yeah
well seeing that all phenomena neither
come nor go
solely for the sake of all beings
supreme guru and protector Chenrezig at
all times i respectfully pay homage to
you with my body speech and mind the
perfect who does source of all benefit
and happiness arise from having
accomplished the true Dharma since that
depends on knowing the practices I'll
explain the way of Bodhisattvas having
now gained this great gem and fortune so
difficult to find in order to free
yourself and others from the ocean of
cyclic existence
listen reflect and meditate day and
night without distraction this is the
way of a bodhisattva attachment to loved
ones turns like water hatred for enemies
rages like fire in the darkness of
ignorance one forgets what to adopt and
want to avoid abandon your homeland this
is the way fun when negative places are
abandoned disturbing emotions will
gradually decline without distraction
attention to the virtue naturally grows
when the mind becomes clearer certainty
and the Dharma arises live alone in
seclusion this is the way of a
bodhisattva
family and longtime companions will
apart from each other possessions gained
with effort will be left behind
consciousness the guests will leave the
guest house of the body let go of all
worldly concerns the way of a
bodhisattva in bad company the three
poisons grow stronger and the activities
of learning reflecting and meditating
decline and love and compassion are lost
give up such companions this is the way
of a bodhisattva when one follows a true
spiritual friend false will dissolve and
good qualities will grow like the waxing
moon this friend more dear than your own
body this is the way of a bodhisattva
who can worldly gods themselves
imprisoned and samsara protect therefore
seek refuge in the three jewels the
undeceiving source of refuge this is the
way of a bodhisattva the Buddha taught
that all the unbearable suffering of the
lower realms is caused by wrongdoing
therefore never act wrongfully even at
the cost of your life this is the way of
a bodhisattva like a dewdrop grass the
happiness of the three worlds vanishes
in but an instant strive for the supreme
state of never changing liver this is
the way of a bodhisattva when mothers
who have loved you since beginningless
time are suffering what good is your own
happiness therefore give rise to
bodhichitta in order to liberate
infinite sentient beings this is the way
of a bodhisattva all suffering without
exception comes from seeking your own
happiness the perfect buddhas are born
from the altruist therefore truely
exchange your
happiness for the suffering of others
this is the way of a bodhisattva even a
driven by great desire steals all your
wealth or lets others steal it
dedicate to them your body possessions
and all virtues of the three times this
is the way of a bodhisattva even if
someone cuts off your head when you
haven't done anything wrong take all the
negative to deeds on yourself through
the power of compassion this is the way
of a bodhisattva even your father's
slander you throughout a billion worlds
in return speak with a loving mind of
their good qualities this is the way of
a bodhisattva even if someone exposes
your hidden faults and insults you in
front of others view that person as a
teacher and by with respect this is the
way of a bodhisattva even if someone you
have cared for as dearly as your own
child regards you as an enemy i love
that person even more as a mother would
her ailing child of a bodhisattva even
if someone of equal or lower status
driven by pride treats you with disdain
respectfully placed them on your crown
as your teacher this is the way of a
bodhisattva though you may be
impoverished edged gripped by disease
and tormented by spirits never lose
courage but take on the misdeeds and the
pain of all beings
this is the way of a bodhisattva though
you may be famous and revered by many
and are as rich as the wealth god
himself having seen that worldly fortune
is without essence do not be proud this
is the way of a bodhisattva
if the enemy
anger is not tamed subduing our enemies
will only make them increase therefore
subdue your own mind with the army of
love and compassion this is the way of a
bodhisattva sensory pleasures are like
salt water the more you drink the
greater your thirst abandon at once all
things that give rise to clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva the way things appear is
your own mind mind itself primordial ii
transcends fabricated extremes just this
do not create a concept sub subject and
object this is the way of a bodhisattva
when you come i could attract you like
beautiful rainbows in summertime do not
regard them as real and abandon clinging
attachment this is the way of a
bodhisattva all suffering is like the
death of your child in a dream how
exhausting it is to hold illusory
appearances as real therefore when you
meet with difficult circumstances see
them as illusory this is the way of a
bodhisattva when even one's body must be
given up when inspiring for
enlightenment what need is there to
mention material things
therefore practice generosity without
hope of reward or karmic results this is
the way of a bodhisattva if you lack
moral discipline and not accomplish even
your own purpose so wanting to achieve
the purpose of others is truly absurd
therefore protect your discipline
without concern for worldly existence
this is the way of a bodhisattva for
Bodhisattvas who desire
the virtue all harm is like a precious
treasure without hostility be patient
with everyone this is the way of a
bodhisattva even hearers or solitary
realizers who accomplish only their own
purpose strive as if putting out a fire
on their head
seeing this practice with diligence the
source of good qualities for the sake of
all beings this is the way of a
bodhisattva oceans are destroyed by
insight grounded in calm abiding knowing
this cultivate meditative concentration
that purely transcends the four formless
absorptions this is the way of a
bodhisattva without wisdom the other
five perfections alone are not enough to
reach complete enlightenment
thus combined with skillful means
develop the wisdom that does not
distinguish among the three spheres this
is the way of a bodhisattva unless you
examine your own confused eye they look
like a practitioner but not be acting
like one
therefore always examine yourself and
abandon confusion this is the way of a
bodhisattva if you are driven by
disturbing emotions and talk about
another Bodhisattvas faults it is
actually to your own detriment so don't
mention the faults of those who have
entered the great vehicle this is the
way of a bodhisattva concern for gain
and respect causes conflict and a
decline in the activities of learning
reflecting and
so abandoned attachment to your circle
relations and benefactors this is the
way of a bodhisattva harsh words disturb
others minds and thus diminish the
practice of a bodhisattva
therefore abandon harsh speech which is
unpleasant to others this is the way
these thoughtful when disturbing
emotions become habitual and is
difficult to reverse them with antidotes
thus the soldier of mindfulness wields
antidotes as weapons and destroys
disturbing emotions such as attachment
the moment they start to arise this is
the way of a bodhisattva
in brief wherever you are and whatever
you are doing always examine eight of
your mind to accomplish the purpose of
others through constant mindfulness and
awareness this is the way of a
bodhisattva with the wisdom of threefold
purity dedicate all the virtue gained
from having made such effort toward
enlightenment dedicated to clear away
the suffering of infinite beings disavow
bodhisattva in accordance with the words
of the holy ones regarding the meaning
of the sutras tantras and their
commentaries I have written these thirty
seven verses on the ways of a
bodhisattva for those who wish to train
on the Bodhisattvas path this
composition will not be admired by the
learn it because my intellect is poor
and my education is limited however I
have followed the sutras and the words
of the Holy Ones so I believe these ways
of a bodhisattva are not mistaken still
because the vast deeds of Bodhisattvas
are difficult to grasp by simple-minded
beings like myself I beg
forgiveness of the Holy Ones for the
mass of my errors such as conscience and
inconsistencies by the virtue arising
from that may all beings give rise to
relative and ultimate bodhichitta and
thereby become like the protector in the
extremes of existence apart with a new
person wanted honorable John Porter this
watch was you know Zhu Bharat cottage
service so these were from our mean
those of us who focus on early Mars are
very retro solemn rational
runners large colossal I suppose
terrorism to tell Katya she's a medium
she don't carry some social not support
traditional basis only newly Thomas a
little role sudden emergence of the
orchestra Sutton completed work up that
Roger and Rogers over a generation Oh
Rhonda she don't talk rubbish citizens
better students or convertible Charles
Dodgson
they don't seem eternal gods were little
intolerance to listen hard or console
inaudible tormentor shortly sir easy
Tony Besant Rajasthan instruments
onwards we are all crucial and also or
portion my probation the Ambassador
missile target avocado tomatillo sana
first is our basic ecology ecology till
eternity reservoir so chilled water soon
shattered our seen this earlier material
cherished and jarate selectively it
she's under a nose for something we
watch our something strong sturdy
Machado
some each doughnut elf also publishes
onion distorted challenges infirmities
dysentery G you are sad so the one is no
more treatment whereas were thirsty
virus really ok mom children the
Hamilton
she's acting or sociological research
isn't also know maybe somebody jail or
does she pursued on Japan's owns the
drugs no Fatima TV
she's on the album he knows she
shouldn't roll distribution system
resist a half proposal
[Music]
so we're speaking about the verse on
patience yesterday which was 27 and and
this actually of the six paramitas is
really the most important the practice
of patience it is like patience is like
your precious content like a vessel that
can contain a very precious substance we
don't have a container to contain it and
the substance will be spoiled
so now regarding the parameter of
patient adding any of the parameters for
example the paramita of generosity
those scholars can teach on that even
just one of them just a single day for
example on the parameter of generosity
they can speak about that all day long
but often we miss maybe hear too much
when we speak too much then again it
gets more difficult to understand it
tomb especially for people like myself
so what's the essence of it if we
summarize it all so the first kind of
patience is the patient endurance that
and and patiently endorse hardships such
as heat and cold and that I refers to
hardships that we endure for the sake of
the Dharma for example I always feel
that the disciples who come here they
have to endure so many hardships and
it's very difficult and I'm quite amazed
by the hardships that they are willing
to endure actually for example in
summertime is very hot here we have
summer teachings but people still insist
on coming anyways and they make it work
and they stay here and then in
wintertime like now it's very cold we
have to win the teachings kinds of
hardships so knowing that I also feel
that if we don't make the best use of
their time it would be really
a very very big fault a big
transgression because it's not easy to
be here it's not the best most comfort a
maybe not the best food to eat but still
people come here because they understand
the quality of the holy Dharma so they
are willing to enter all sorts of
hardships the hardships of heat and cold
and so forth for the sake of the Dharma
and that's a kind of patience for
example that's what Milarepa did and
often when it comes to them a practice
we do endure a lot of hardships when we
practice
so the second patience is being patient
with harm doers who attack one and so
that is really related to that verse
here all those who do harm like a
precious treasure and this one is
particularly important in the practices
of the Bodhisattva and the secret mantra
path and just this line here all those
who do harm are like a precious treasure
is very meaningful so what are those who
do harm somebody triggers your anger
anger and make you angry and that makes
you realize oh I have a lot of anger
actually now if we don't realize that
but it's they are hidden in our mind and
we just feel sort of annoyed with
everything and we just want to go
somewhere and be alone and we don't want
to talk to anyone so late at mountain
retreat not recognizing that it's
actually because here we are angry he
want to hide but they're actually what
remains in our mind unknowingly is that
anger and so then he goes with his
mountain retreat and actually it still
comes up there
you keep getting annoyed with other
things the birds I'm saying and then
then the deer constantly coming and so
on or the animals there and even if the
food is not so nice get a little
angry about that so constantly it it
arises and that is that is the real
enemy it's your your own anger not the
outer object and some daivam had given a
good example
he said now if you want to avoid any
kind of harm and dorm in this world and
for example let's say this whole world
is covered in in thorns you might want
trying to avoid all of these some thorns
you might want to cover the whole earth
with letter and so you don't have to
walk on those stones anymore and so for
example nowadays we make roads and
things like that but actually
realistically nobody can do that nobody
can cover the whole planet in leather so
shantideva there from said if you
recognize the enemy to be your own
hatred then the best thing you can do is
that to put on leather shoes that are
strong and then you can walk on any kind
of thorn and it won't affect you you
don't have to cover the whole world in
leather and you can just for leather
shoes so that means you recognize the
fault
in your own anger then you can face any
difficulty you can walk on thorns you
can walk on rocks and so on you wouldn't
get angry at the outer objects the one
who's triggering the anger but he would
recognize the fault within your own
anger so often people they they blame
those who trigger their anger to be the
source of their frustration they feel
like running away to somewhere where
there is no other person they just say I
want to go away I'm gonna go somewhere
where there's nobody I don't have to
talk to any meanwhile their anger
remains hidden in there
like poison and so that is that real
enemy that is to be recognized and so
then when it arises your instant him
should see there it is I'm angry and
what's the harm in that the harm and
this anger is that its interest it cuts
you off from love so the first thing
actually that happens is is it loose you
lose your wisdom and then you losing
your wisdom you lose your love for
example if you have a very good friend
that has been your friend for a very
long time if one day you get angry at
them you forget all of that love and
then immediately you act out with body
and speech in a harsh way you show them
an angry face and you say mean things
and so forth and then you start arguing
and fighting you might even get into
like a fistfight and in the end maybe
you even kill somebody somebody that you
have loved before so if you recognize
that with awareness instantly see that
there it is I'm angry this is my real
enemy this is like poison and the only
way for me to know that I have one who
who triggers it it is also said that if
you don't have anyone to your anger then
who how I go to practice patience so
when somebody triggers your anger it
makes you realize that it's actually
there so we need actually those who
trigger our Engram and therefore jigme
lingpa
also had said that those hum doors and
evil ones evil spirits and so on all
these obstacles they are all like a
stepping stone or an enhancement to our
meditation practice so we should not
actually so trigger our anger as the
ones that have that fault the fault
should be seen within our own
anger from jean castle love dear master
soon t source of a new one and warm
doctor me she's on thorium Bettany as
robot a newborn or w/e bungee gandara no
possible tricity does some warranty from
our power
JJ dr. jin-sang lumber Zapata China that
disturbed young gentlemen Sebastian
water-rich energetically Peter Connelly
drama saare classical Buddhism tolerance
and appointment incognito make cuts a
tree
Putin Colorado mr. Watson vigilance on
authorities on forcibly juror awesome
sonsaku-san on the table you'll
see on some College London Karachi
sinister cheated on something to detain
ET son art hours of hong kong xiangxi
domination Lord each other most
opportunity not to be overly sad
important
Savarkar Osama bin Laden our children
the launcher is just Oracle numbers
generosity she account the torture other
parameter
launches son started promoting of the
Daniel Martinez Armani data runs over
the time zone Roberta - la boca rom
civil taught the taco salon style was
rude to our attention to talk or chat or
normally cartagena the G button built
our child hibachi delicate agility
intimate undercover on particle
not totally British support naturally
passionately soon resume Mira Mira Mira
chart of places Charles chauvel
appearance of the Double Fantasy
Childress until Madonna portacaval Java
Sumatra Java Sumatra children to
kassadin santera gyrometer nocturnes era
that except in jewelry Roman Roman
education to Bajrangi same choreography
disorderly ramakrishna tyranny in
Caesarea Ronaldson apparel robot touchy
she wanted that data to solve other
parts for classical story
geography remember yesterday someone be
total range 3G the Dominion just only
shade your master don't party too much
deterrence to be in Paris treaty status
which resulted Garibaldi stolen your oh
you're such a loser
and so the Buddha taught three levels of
the path of the individual liberation
the Bodhisattvas and path and in those
party became unmindful we again give
rise to mindfulness and so forth so all
of this actually requires the practice
of patience so we think about the faults
of anger and particular over and over
again this is mainly how we do it
according to love individual liberation
we really think about the falls and the
consequences of anger and to the point
verdun it doesn't arise any longer so it
is abandoned and then there's others for
whom deal with anger by cultivating only
love and compassion so they develop
immeasurable love and compassion and
when that arises when immeasurable love
arises one simply can't get really angry
with any longer for example just like a
mother and her child a mother loves her
child to him when we when we see the
leftover foods of somebody else then we
feel disgusted but no matter how dirty
our child is we wipe it hands without
feeling that so no matter how much
trouble the child gives the mother the
mother will never hate the child she
loves the child so just naturally
through love and compassion the precious
bodhichitta transforms so the
Bodhisattva path is one of
transformation where hatred anger is
transformed into the nature of love and
compassion another path of the secret
mantra navaja Yanam one takes theme
afflictions as the path so one practices
with them and this is really where his
precious treasure comes in this precious
treasure mentioned here really should be
understood as belonging mainly to
Ravager ayianna path
practice one really understands the view
of the secret mantra mantra ng's forms
the afflictions into wisdom in them
kaga tradition also it is said if you
understand the nature of the afflictions
then all suffering is an ocean of nectar
form the afflictions into wisdom but how
can we do that first
your mind is put on nature so on the
basis prime mode it is completely pure
it is like space there's no defilement
is it is completely pure and only
temporarily it is like clouds have
appeared in the sky and temporarily the
mind is obscured by these thoughts of
attachment aversion and ignorance so the
clouds appear in the sky temporarily and
then they do all kinds of things so that
they rained a snow big thunder and so on
all kinds of good and bad things but
it's only a temporary obscuration the
basis of your mind is never obscured any
fault that arises of your true nature
but it's a temporary fault anger for
example is an extremely powerful
affliction for example when there's two
people who have stayed together as good
friends twenty or thirty years one day
something happens they get angry at each
other and in that moment all of their
love that they have had for each other
for like twenty years is destroyed
almost instantly so the anger has this
power to destroy all of that love that
you have had for such a long time so
he's a very powerful affliction and when
you look at its nature it is mirror like
wisdom so when strong anger arises look
at the nature you will see that when
strong anger arises you actually come to
the basic the fundamental nature of the
mind in that and when you realize that
you will feel that actually
anger has helped my practice and then in
this way as each time it arises you
practice with it in this way you take it
as the path and you do the same with
attachment or with ignorance with the
three poisons and then eventually no
matter how many afflictive emotions
arise they become like an enhancement to
your practice and therefore like a
precious treasure and this practice is
very powerful even in just a short time
for example if you were to go into
retreat and practice some mine bipasha
enough for a very long time during that
time you might achieve some tranquility
and stability but there is you do not
have that force of clarity and on the
other if you get angry one day and in
that moment you really practice with it
and you recognize its nature then that
is actually more power than having
meditated for even some years on
schemata and my passion on and that is
why that is the skillful means of the
secret months why it is referred to as a
precious treasure and then on the path
of individual liberation and the
Bodhisattva path we rule him and slowly
the power of our awareness increases so
the Bodhisattva path is more powerful
than the path and a secret mantra path
is more powerful than the Bodhisattva
path so on the bodies under a secret
mantra path becomes patience really
becomes a hum doors really becomes a
precious treasure for the one who
practices patience so when any very
powerful effective emotion arises you
come the fundamental nature of the mind
it actually also happens when you fall
asleep and you go to dream you also come
to the basic nature fundamental nature
of the mind but because we are ignorant
we never recognized that so and
therefore there's also the practice of
the dream yoga where we recognize
luminosity at the time and we are
sleeping for example there they also got
his maja Saddam who would always sleep
and actually only I'm sleeping
even at daytime he would realize the
luminosity of mind so this is from a
battery on a perspective if you
recognize that all but anything can
become a condition so anything for
practice so anything is a precious
treasure so then all of that needs to be
Murli activities so first of all you
have to understand the view and then you
have to have pitch weight to it practice
it but then finally it has to be brought
into your daily life for example when
you're working in Dharma Center and so
on all of this then becomes practice or
whatever you do even though it seems
that no you're doing all kinds of things
and you might even think that I'm just
doing ordinary things I'm using making
phone calls and things like that and
talking to people and then it makes you
even feel frustrated but actually if you
know how to so patience is very much
related to sustaining the continuum of
love of that then a person who has that
will be happy in their lives and a happy
person actually said to also live longer
and they will have a white hair and have
a happier life and better relations so
it is generally also related to one's
physical well-being and also of course
mental well-being and then it is also
related to the longevity of the Guru
actually now you have offered a long
live room and my disciples do that
actually that one thing that extends the
life of the Guru is when that is
cultivate love and get along with each
other and don't find actually that
naturally benefits your surrounding
and it naturally contributes to the long
life of the Guru it's also good for your
health and your own mental well-being
so therefore among all the practices
really patience is really the most
precious one if you're able to practice
patience and you work for Dharma Center
for example whatever comes the practice
after six parameters and nowadays we
have centers everywhere and people
working for centers has many people and
if you know that point of practice you
will be able to do then you will feel
that this is practice this is the six
parameters you will be able to go out
there and meet people and talk to them
and so on
so actually in and the key look per
tradition there is mainly in the global
tradition there's this practice called
the four ways offering disciples and
that's very much related to this
actually for example to to speak nicely
to them and to act in accordance with
what one has said and to act in a
meaningful way and to also be generous
towards them and so about those for
gathering disciples again the great
masters can teach you more about that
but this is really the Bodhisattvas
conduct tomb it's really related through
the practice of patience to catch a
movie or is your body
Serleena multiple images actually keep
moving upon the dimensional for Georgia
so you just the metadata drove out and
touched and Politan he told me something
about reverse reverse or glory but
dirty martini Three Rivers College
Ramanujan technologies in Watsonville
Raji dodgy massive totally guardian
eternal joy or Marie harf on Gandhi's
mother Naruto daddy
Donatello the energy cash import
donating na Na's alternately original
Santos Zimmermann donor children ever
travel to Bali sides so to summarize all
of that into the one important point it
all comes down to one important point
and that I do not look at the outer
objects or the condition that has made
you angry but recognize your own anger
directly so that's most important
because as it is said here in the text
um we cannot destroy enemies on the
outer level the more we try to destroy
them avoid them the more they will arise
we can't avoid the afflictive emotions
in this one point and secondly you know
when bring patients through is furthest
limits there is the third kind of
patience and that is the patience that
is unafraid with regard to the meaning
of empty so this this is a fear and so
were the basis on which this fear rises
is probably the seeming contradiction
between the two fault rows that is
karma is infallible on the other hand on
the ultimate level everything is empty
of self natrum so atom fear rises and a
sense of fear rises and sometimes fear
arises just naturally risen that's also
related to that and that's actually a
sign of self-grasping actually for as
long as we grasp at the self there is no
end even if one understands the meaning
of emptiness if one is still grasping at
a self fear will still arise and
generally the self-grasping is really
hard to recognize but actually it is
recognized on the basis of fear when
this arise something has happened to me
and there it is this I has arisen it's
directly related to fear for example
there were some practitioners who
practice poem sometimes in the practice
naturally all thinking stops and then
suddenly fear arises and that is because
not based on a motivation of bodhichitta
if you pace the practicing bodhichitta
on the four immeasurables then fear
wouldn't arise so this is most important
and worthy for daughter to me it's from
a poem some very shoddy or a muscle just
income 300 similar such indigenous
employment relationships in the family
agenda the courage to change the
rationalism sapa Somali passage across
Oh
da da de de da en de Nemours is agent a
job or San Jose Marti akira toriyama
narrator la liberté Natalie de Vionnet
Louisville area cilantro coriander de
colo Daytona
since manga Murray Somali no anomalies
same governor dollars to Mary Todd on
jeans
darling you may see Robert Rogers and
Chang windows or deliberate this Sancho
senses as Roberta body on geology
dietary to continually recently do such
of surveys that are somewhat on board
the theater neurologic degeneration
percentage a tourism the somewhat
arbitrary you know social services are
something starts wounds on the
Securities entrepreneurial you know some
indeed hypocrisy the other are the
Buddha is water source on the project
coyote Universal ninjas
the next is Severson diligence
number 28 even heroes our solitary
realizers who accomplish only their own
purpose strife as if putting out a fire
on their head
seeing this practice with diligence the
source of good qualities for the sake of
all beings this is the way of every sod
farm here there is also a difference
between the women of a lower vehicle or
the greater vehicle practices I'm some
striving only for their own purpose is
that even if we strive make a great
effort for our own purpose souls will
still be small if we make a slight
effort with a motivation that will be a
great result but this is also related to
the worldly ways actually we from day
and night we work we make effort only
for this life so it is only for this
life in a sock Ida said if you are if
you cling or whoever clings to this life
whoever is attached to this life is not
a Dharma practice I'm some however hard
you work for this life however much
effort you make in this life what is the
result of that what is it for to what
end actually it is for not much what
will ease what really what he really get
from that is those imprints of
attachment aversion and ignorance in our
minds harm us that we accumulate with
those emotions so what we really get
from all of that is the cause for
falling into the three lower realms so
the source of good qualities that is
love and compassion and if you have that
whatever occasion for example at arm
activity will be your own benefit and
to the happiness of others even the
slightest effort for example some people
complete their preliminary practices the
moon drop in his life and it seems in
this life a very minor thing to
accomplish but actually it is a big
thing to accomplish if you have this
motivation that it will benefit all
because that's the whole point of the
Dharma MIT is to cultivate an altruistic
mind it is the antidote to self grasping
and so that is the Dharma be again and
again put these imprints of altruism
into our mind as we said Dharma is a
method to cultivate yet arisen and not
let it decline where it has arisen and
so forth so if you have altruism that is
the method to achieve temporary and
ultimate happiness so we have to work
physically and verbally in this life but
then what it really is about this the
Dharma practice is a kind milarepa had
said it's not the body that goes to hell
it's the mind that goes to hell and why
does the my own it is because it grasps
at the self and then gives rise to
afflictive emotions which become
protected as hell Buddha's are born
from the altruistic mind bodhichitta
must be protected by patience over and
over so what is this source of good
qualities it is all bodhichitta but it's
all a quality of bodhichitta the source
of all good analogy damn even if it has
practice the slightest virtue you you do
it for the benefit of all sentient
beings then it becomes so again the
source of good qualities should be
understood as love and compassion and
that's of course also related to
patients because love and company
sustained the protectant by patience
support our campaign your baton rouge
taught languages Catalan and no bottle
some cheese chili on it they are turned
the original images traditional to our
current traditional wanted they note to
modulate our onto those true what
engines generate dimension
carnation no terrible some though the
storage was a model citizen will be
gathered in gonna the whole saucers
security negative report about the
velocity of Little Rock Arkansas Ricardo
the prince will represent an Argentine
encourage the trigati's our relation
somebody negated the tribunal till much
later motionless a Tesla certainly
George finish line change charge of some
sort of some minissha lamba related
items the services of a new homes there
was a division there is some central
here today without George Aldridge
Sancho safety budget under travel budget
even
Misawa tonzura eligible the
authoritative William Tritton sour sauce
sriracha was only Russian this antigen
also simulated which our solidarity will
generate Central Asia the challenge or
services somebody in kg that was torture
to destroy Gotham City Newman the mass
of a church or there is no commercial
what religious overage trooper Najib
astronomer something very legit data
they're talking about punch it was just
on the hottest tuna they don't cut
yourself which is so much more than a
time - Hey - do you but John Fox has dr.
Marvel only saved apart other Kearsarge
also historic a celebrity midoriyama
theorist wrote this the submission is in
similar sites or somebody needs easy we
miss our bus it was only about six
people others are summaries of the
Sunnah publisher and touch Hartmann
Nutella subtle Dalai Lama so mr. Hawk
they don't reach higher
Kylie child was assaulting a child what
is something about a chocolate comedy
was tradition about a ninja trophy
honors the Islamic religious our
children mmm supportive of a pillory
or God's throne or just rounded corners
even stronger so they're on the basil
also
so there's different kinds of diligence
and I found that to think about this is
very beneficial in terms of application
no verm we applied the practice so what
that means is that no we listen to
Dharma teachings or we recite mantra and
so on and we say may all beings have
happiness and the causes always say that
but now what do we really think can we
say that how will they experience
happiness when we say - for example then
you had you recognize that I have a
precious human body I am born in the
higher realms and period birth and an
animal for example and what's the cause
of that because of that is ethical
discipline or I have a lot of
processions and what's the cause of that
because of that is - neuro City and
having made offerings or you think I
have a beautiful appearance and I live
long have no illness and many good
companions and that is the result of
patience but all of these together only
arise from love so let me say may all
beings have happiness and the causes of
happiness to achieve that they all need
love great love a continuum of growth
must be sustained within the mind for
example if you love your companion then
how do you feel what's that feeling when
you really love and you feel very happy
and also your companion feels very happy
is your own benefit and others happiness
so the only cause of happiness is love
and compassion about it again and again
no matter what you do with body and each
in the world or in the Dharma when a
moment of love and compassion
within you again and again recognized
this is truly precious so to all of us
recognize that is Lech and in the
application actually applying the
practice you apply love and compassion
you recognize that this is my companion
this is my true guru it is that for
example I supplicate to put to the Quran
that is put in cheetah because why is it
a guru what do the Guru's tell us to all
the Buddha's of the three times tell us
they tell us practice love and
compassion has have happiness
temporarily and ultimately there is only
one precious jewel and that is the
precious bodhichitta recognising that is
the diligence of application second is
the are more like diligence and so that
is where you recognize that the enemies
of this bodhichitta which you have
identified our hatred jealousy and pride
and so on so again these are more like
diligence is related to patients as well
and so in a mundane activity for example
you work in a factory you will think
then if you know if you have this are
more like diligent diligence all of my
for example have been my parents if you
think in this way who actually wins it's
actually yourself and also then you love
others is going to make them happy so
you really gain a great result from that
the party and speech are secondary the
mind is most important so others to
continue to apply love and compassion in
your mind is team the diligence of
application so to continuously place
this imprint of love and compassion into
your mind
the are more like diligence to not allow
the mind to become controlled by
afflictive emotions and thoughts now so
for example when you go to work you
wouldn't get your
colleagues and so forth but you would
regard them all with love and compassion
and patience and so that's how the our
Mullins is related to patients and then
the third kind is called
theme the insatiable peloton's you can't
get enough of practicing virtual there's
there's no content to practicing virtual
to body and physical and verbal virtue
or so it's not just like do a little bit
of practice once a day and then you're
unsatisfied with what you have done it's
not about completing like 110 mantras or
a mile around of mantras sometimes
people say they ask how many mantras do
I have to recite every day will 10 doom
so so that's not how it is
always recite the mantra continuously
actually ideally all the time because we
need the mantra in order to place this
imprint into a speech into our mind we
need bodhichitta to place this an
imprint into a like mind imprint and
then the mantra is the speech imprint
that all need to be placed into our mind
continuously so there is not in that and
that's why it's the insatiable diligence
no matter how much you practice it's
never enough it always do more so for
the mind that means to always sustain
bodhichitta immeasurable love and
compassion to always protect that with
patience so of course if you have time
you do your practice your recitation and
of course you don't always have time to
do that but even if you don't have time
anything can become practice even if you
don't do a recitation speaking in a
beneficial way it's also practice it's
also word sheõs Reggio so anything can
become virtuous actually no matter what
you do it is that and then wherever you
go is it is a Pureland is a edom day
team according to the secret mantra so
this is how it has to be
Hamilton Matlin and how does it become
that way the old name by practicing love
and patience so that's the insatiable
intelligence where there is no end it
has never enough practice so diligence
of application the Amal intelligence and
the insatiable deletions these three
kinds of diligence and we are explained
is really very beneficial and so this is
something I personally understood
clearly that is why I can also tell you
that Gargi New Year people regard the
European summit Roberto
3015 simply gosh this antique medical
in total the consultant 1/4 Delta 2
material certainly the Universal Design
Group only people to touch polish since
the retirement in the neurological role
of importance in the diva
Rana / under the orientation
transference what it for the GPS are you
have given is Austin or humor so
somewhat are somewhat invisible
she returned elusive around jameth of
the cinema
oh the why would you love that
you're just on my mind but neither one's
not even watching me talks on society
that's wonderful
Oh Tommy or is some top monk only party
who sealed in Majesty what's a bomb
powers from some other some tougher
problem
Harrison ignored or returned hold or
marathoners no it's a door there are
others allergies are subtly big German
logic doesn't see the previous la with
or indoors the tourists on would have
sauna smart so injera Nadia torture
torture Murat a mom market on say
but now it's a my irritants such a
supportive family gamma
modulus answer too much of our Rostova
mother's farm alone or nourish also
coercive the gamma rays Sultan's on
course achieve the damage test pie
rather source of chapter twelve manually
jinsana
just I'm just sort of sweetie don't
worry just leave no porridge Oh mother I
was simply some pre-war some solid
solutions of geometry yeah Thomas
awesome telogen double sim city college
material
Roger Simmons entangling this is oh
sorry master Kochiyama
such a theater
tsurara mother authoritative tolerate
sorry
[Music]
so the defining characteristics of this
term diligence is that diligence is when
you delight in virtue and that is
whatever you do whatever virtuous thing
you do is body and speech you enjoy
doing it you delight you enthusiastic
about it
and so what is this root of virtue that
we practice so now we perceive a duality
of self and other and in that at that
time when we perceive a duality we merge
you means that you do anything to make
others happy to bring joy to others you
try to not harm them you try to not get
angry at them all of that is virtual and
it is such that if you if you want to
please the Buddha's make sentient beings
happy because that is what the Buddha's
have in mind it is a temporary and the
ultimate happiness of all sentient
beings you will smile at them and he
will talk to them and it is
a facial expression is not fake but it's
real one of your heart it comes from a
place of love so if you only do that
then already you have accumulated
all the merit so the secret man provides
the skillful means for for doing that in
a brain it is actually said that the
secret mantra teachings are rich in
skillful means that require the least
difficulties and those with sharp mental
faculties so the secret mantra is rich
in skillful means even if you don't know
anything even if you can't do any
certain practice there are again
skillful means for those individuals for
example there is a liberating that you
eat or there is a liberation by seeing
something that you seem or liberation by
hearing or liberation for example if you
were these bracelets is wristbands with
the liberation by seeing mantra for
example if the poem and one of them
wears this wristband then all of those
hundred people will be benefited
everyone who sees that person will be
benefited every one will have that seed
of liberation planned that so it's
similar to what you mentioned before
keeping one vow nunim it's actually the
Buddha's aspiration the Buddha said may
everyone who sees me everyone who hears
me everyone who thinks of me be
benefited so if we want to become like
that
for example Milarepa has said there is
an instruction for a mind for example
when you're driving in your car you can
imagine that the sky is filled with
Buddha's and you're reciting mantra and
you're imagining how you're paying
homage to them and then it all becomes
herkiman actually
there's really no difference than making
a circumambulation or a prostration it's
the same
so that's just one skillful means
spending on how you see things and the
other one that milarepa said was and
then there is an instruction where
eating and drinking becomes a feast if
your are mindful actually all of this is
accomplished through mindfulness if
you're mindful man you're eating for
example your body is filled with
millions of microorganisms and nowadays
people know that and if your mind is
bodhichitta then they all become deities
because they also possess Buddha nation
and then you feel that my whole body is
Satie's and then if you eat and drink
with a wish to benefit sentient beings
then it becomes really a feast offering
to the day so that was the second
instruction and the third instruction
was a meal Arriba and then there is the
instruction were sleeping becomes
cognition of luminosity and so it
becomes that way if you remember
bodhichitta the four immeasurables
through periods of the day and the three
periods of the night and you always
remember the suffering of sentient
beings and then understood the view the
natural state of the mind and you have
habituated it then it will be carried
into the sleep state awareness will be
sustained so you recognize the
luminosity of the dream state
so these for example are three full
methods practices that we can do and
they are accomplished really on the
basis of how we view things behind it
really depends on ourselves diligence
depends on ourselves to put himself had
said that in I can give it out but to
practice it with diligence that is up to
you so again the defining
characteristics of diligence is
[Music]
for what
what eaten solid common carotid artery
ha assumption which ever graduate level
of tourists for example often people who
are very sick or elderly people and
think that they cannot really do
anything or do anything and I don't they
can
recite different things and study and so
on but still the skillful means for them
to fall cultivate most importantly
cultivate faith and devotion and then
you can just be in a prayer wheel for
example but the pre too big because if
it's too big then your hand starts
hurting and then you can't always spin
it so you want to have a small prayer
wheel that you turn all the time
continuously and if it's small and light
then you will also want to spin it all
the time nowadays in this world people
know about the many benefits of is also
an unceasing purification of sentient
beings obscurations
so the mantra is seen as super seen as
the de team for example if you recite a
mantra or you're spin the prayer wheel
and trust
for example chenresig however many
mantras millions of mantras there are in
that prayer wheel they all emanate upon
you thinking of it for example if you
want to make offerings to all the
buddhas in the pure lands then by
spinning the prayer we own those men
outward to the pure lands and make
offerings there and if you think of
benefiting sentient beings then those
mantras again emanate outwards and his
creations of sentient beings so the
unceasing offering to the Buddha's the
unceasing purification of sentient
beings and then third the unceasing
attainment accomplishment of Sidi for
oneself so your own accomplishment is
achieved by inning mindfulness and
awareness of this wish to benefit
sentient beings all the time and in this
way yourself productive emotions will
gradually melt away through these
through only spinning a prayer wheel of
practicing the mantra remember tree also
said that such samadhi like these three
continuations are very rare in this
world and very it is actually a skillful
means
many of its benefits are mentioned in
the tantras as well the benefits of
visualizing tree garland and reciting
the mantra and so on and it's the same
for actually spinning a prayer wheel so
it would be good if you had a prayer
wheel and actually spent all the time
so if it's search and robot something I
see also tennis table is covered with
various owners and other machines
puppets are autonomous entities
it's ordination a Toronto from Chanel of
the important impersonate simply the
modern seminar one for some high card
Etowah general community chakra thomas
lee yong-ki for all the artists even
forget the majors since our party
wonderful little metal songs that are
similar home until you move our
technology 7 l exam ultimately later on
the teacher on cotton
Paris a cauliflower depart all senators
Rwanda Sierra Leone Araceli Segarra
Patti Jean Genet Nadine Obama the same
only Chanel shopper David Serrano
Salmonella Cochran synchronicity
phenomena tried to encourage tourism the
such entity called assuages the coton de
sumidero torque on non-cotton to
varnavat aguas de Austin really romantic
or engages in the same divided
government only try the specialize in
general an annual project in other words
not all successful is not from a
fabulous job on a Saltine any normal
person tea party such a danger not only
percent from from dinner table are
travelling across each combatant not
already nam kyuman important so Martin
Sheen's apartment Rajasthan Gujarat
chattering kabocha Jamie she got it the
memories well this only party ecology
your son marry the lady some work here
on my affection for ancient Chinese a
handsome warning buttock area wanna talk
about your anova charges of the wazoo
Laurie there is any address in our
system for that they are not also Ghani
orange running
they are not returnin discipline wh I'm
certain
next are the parameters of a meditation
meditative concentration and then wisdom
and so here first from meditative
concentration it speaks about the inside
that is grounded in calm abiding so now
regarding especially regarding the
paramita of wisdom actually and that can
be explained by the great scholars for
many days actually the depression a
parameter and the perfection of wisdom
is one of the most important scriptures
of of study so it can be explained very
extensively and I will just explain that
in brief
now this schemata this come inside which
is grounded in calm abiding now what
must happen is that we must attain this
autonomy of freedom where we are able to
abide at will so you can place the mind
in its natural state and then stay there
so that's the kind of kind of freedom
and self-control that must be attained
and so why is it that we lack this
control over our mind now it is because
whatever afflictive emotion and thought
arises in the mind we are completely
overtaken by the force of that
affliction so we become completely
controlled by it it is that all freedom
is
and all lack of freedom are being
controlled by other is the cause of
suffering so these thoughts and
afflictive emotions are like the seeds
of a flower that we accumulate in our
mind and later then they are those
karmic winds that we are bound to follow
that'll take us so for example anger
arises you become over taken by the
anger controls you then you engage in
all sorts of activities with your body
and speech you accumulate Karma
you are controlled by the hatred anger
you have no self-control
now here schemata inside which is
grounded in calm abiding refers to
attaining this stability of not becoming
controlled so ideally you understand the
nature of the mind you have realized
that the nature of mind is like space or
in doctrine it is referred to as the
original Puritan whether it is Maha
mudra or doctrine we are speaking about
the true natural state of the mind and
in in order to realize the space like
nature of the mind first of all it must
become free from clouds a cloud like a
cloud free sky and again there is much
to be explained along those lines and I
have not myself studied that I'm so much
on an intellectual level so I don't know
how to inhabit explain that
I'm just really speaking from my own
personal experience of that so the point
here is that them must be pacified first
of all but that doesn't mean that no
thoughts arise thoughts will still arise
in the mind but they must not affect the
mind so you don't follow those thoughts
and then when he rests within that
thought free state which doesn't grasp
then he recognized Mahamudra or my
passion I know know he gained his
insight in the nature of the mind which
is then like a cloud free sky no chicken
some gun has said unless them.this got
the clouds of the thoughts obscuring the
sky after mind itself do not vanish the
luminosity of the planets and stars the
luminosity of the two planets and stars
which are the two kinds of knowledge
will not emerge so the two kinds of
knowledge will emerge when the clouds of
thinking is cleared away from the mind
itself so there these two kinds of
knowledge are the knowledge wisdom
realizes things as they are and then the
knowledge that knows all the things in
their extent everything that exists so
it refers to the relative and ultimate
knowledge and an ultimate level there is
no contradiction but I again do have
that fault of not annoying to explain
that very clearly in words that is why F
also came both Henson who can explain
that to you very well the nature of calm
abiding and special insight you know his
studied the scriptures on that and there
are many disciples who have an interest
in this field of knowledge frame many
intelligent disciples are interested in
knowing about that and hearing about
those commentaries and then there's also
those like myself who I'm just like to
practice and so for them there's also
many like that and so for them then
there is me who share such just some
personal experiences parrot is about
Tony's and voice on
the Cardona ganas auntie LAN party
automation le Tigres de carne asada tone
10 days Palazzo dei so sad a coma so our
agenda on Center Jason Thomas san-tomás
destiny a sentence a soggy mess
Septimus roberge's san-tomás ona Tata
Jenna Jenna Jenna Jenna
saucin saucin saucin victor Obamas
jarate tante sempre tramonto Maserati
so tarconi Labonte's le numéro Papa's
emotional charge session s total charge
or yet listening rhetorical a ninja
turtle from 27e région attorney party
Meera there is an option C do not manage
it
number Chiba certainiy or a solution or
the runs winner of the haka normal their
energies on
molarity not easily Chapel charity so
important nambeesa Portuguese motto
motto was an affiliate or doctor
tomorrow return assembly on is an option
or a Sardar inherited not yet Todd
Java consider of the chosen their
importance in according mera pehla
possible ejected from worry dr. Hassan
this territory the originally supported
data genealogy Iran today is small there
is an object ID nominate certain
yattaman order Nancy Drew Samar Samar
Samar robot Tom destroy solitaire enjoy
entertainment in the ordinary young
memory technology limited or Muhammad
Allah sent a single minute is central
Georgia the alternate democracy
democracy support LGBT justice normally
mati
the telogen Americans that the matter
was same generate simply in Arizona -
Artemis child with cinnamon is militias
or something to nibble conversation
tolerate
mr. Tanaka interpreted the thi most
important entities from princess rubali
jerkwater so no matter the masses not
approachable later become very majestic
the people or restriction is for
monopoly
Marco Romney Mexico trataba de la serda
body relate
no so just regarding this worse that
Bechet and some gun will be form and
this is like the combination of the six
paramitas and in the beginning it all
starts with as before the difficulty of
finding a precious human birth and so
forth all the stages of the path all of
these stages of the path up until this
point are actually for the sake of
cultivating i'm schemata come abiding a
meditative state
so of course ultimately the goal is to
attain enlightenment in order to attain
enlightenment the Buddha said completely
tame your own mind so this means mind
even though the Buddha also said all
beings are actually Buddhas they still
have to purify their mind and we do that
by practicing accomplishing schemata a
state of calm abiding and this pacifiers
their confusion in the mind according to
the path of individual liberation the
afflictions are abandoned in the
Bodhisattva path they are transformed so
all of these are only a method to
achieve a state of calm abiding to not
become controlled by the afflictive
emotions and in the individual
liberation one recognizes first the
fault of the afflictive emotions but in
brief it is all for the sake of
achieving the state of calm abiding to
realize the mind after that because
what's the ultimate fruition of calm
abiding it's then leads into the
Platinum or this special insight seeing
the nature of the mind the true nature
of the mind that is devoid of self and
Adam and this is when the consciousness
transforms into primordial wisdom so for
as long as we don't see the true nature
of the mind we see
leti of self and others and at that time
we refer to that mind as the
consciousness consciousness protects
outward and discerns various external
objects but it doesn't look inward and
it doesn't know its own true nature and
milarepa actually explains clearly the
difference between the consciousness and
primordial wisdom so what is the
difference sentient beings who have not
realized the nature of mind have a
consciousness we all have a
consciousness whoever has a mind has a
consciousness and that consciousness
perceives a duality of self and other
and then there's wisdom there is the
wisdom deities for example it is said
within the expense of primordial wisdom
all the buddhas are one when one
realizes the nature of mind one realizes
that samsara and Nirvana are indivisible
so that is what one realizes finally
even if we cannot understand it on a
large vast scale what we need to
understand is self and others are not
separate in the Samantabhadra prayer for
example this is referred to as the
single basis so it is the true nature of
the mind now regarding the difference
between the consciousness and wisdom
when one accomplished has come appealing
one gains insight into the nature of the
mind or with Hashem so at the time and
there's consciousness consciousness
discerns various objects and also
various afflictive emotions that arise
virtues and non-virtues thoughts and so
on but there is clinging a belief in the
true existence of whatever appears and
one labels them on no one gives them
certain attributes and so a feeling
arises and one completely indulges in
their feeling believes that this
it is believes in the truth of that
feeling that experience and I don't
think that is true or it is not true so
the six kinds of feelings or since sense
sensations cause the grasping at them
cause the mind to solidify into this
solid I'm anti team that actually
doesn't exist even though the mind is
insubstantial it becomes like the solid
some thing and do to them
clinging fixation to our experiences so
at times we are distracted by a
pleasurable experiences of bliss we
cling to them and we are distracted and
then when it is taken from us often we
cannot bear that and even commit suicide
so that kind of mind to experience as
all of that cannot actually be seen and
yet it has all of these experiences and
feelings so these feelings become so
solid because of our grasping our belief
in their true existence someone who
realizes in nature of non-duality knows
that all of this is just an illusion
actually there is only it is one mind
there might be a diversity in bodies but
there is only one mind that's actually
the first thing to understand the
non-dual mind and that is what inside
the passion are realizes the non-dual
mind so meditation is the practice is a
skillful means to pacify all these
thoughts and fixations in the mind and
one good method to do that is the
meditation called therefore kinds of
placing of one's mindfulness and four
kinds of mindfulness in brief and
actually Campbell 10-0 Bush I can
explain that very
clearly to you again and again I request
him to teach that to you because in the
beginning for a beginning practitioner
if we don't use these tools like those
four kinds of mindfulness to reflect
upon it will be very difficult to deal
with our thoughts that arise in the mind
that is why these teachings are very
beneficial so in brief when it comes to
schemata calm abiding it's not about
rejecting thoughts we can truly reject
others but we let them dissolve
naturally just like a wave on water
Rio Janeiro diversion mondo mondo Maciej
October Raveena
this laranjinha sport Oklahoma Sierra's
sotas onsen piranha mama majority of
Iran from Torah today charities la da da
de Bahia so transfer knowledge is a
common type we just about threatened
non-contagious child Mary just
work was all done by the under hot areas
of the body and similarly the Casa de
catalunya the Nahuatl is clean is
visiting la marcha body turn on CD run
initial trauma tenacity in world open a
knee or the same set of knowledge
without the timer is not a need
Harper is done with the ha colony tartan
the body not retired or what is they are
flammable or that senator selected your
chairmanship last economist of the
university's oh-seok wasn't religious
Maurice DMO Sally
the only damage or persons to children
in 16,000 a woman our technology that
families may pay homage is Tel Aviv
image I wanted or didn't Jonas in
Chaitanya media local party New Zealand
emergency support our charity Ezra Soho
Tina no me mention sebacean spot agency
or a su parte mochila
say party Fredonia Chatham own a
centrosome Mahato Tom Ament a hablar de
parte de la hora que ha pasado my
delicious repast us are a deterrent
export ingenious technology director
natalya natalya my only memory as a
semi-aquatic never seen or a solitary
charge in January they are usually
inaudible Jeremy to Ferguson
narco-terrorist reportedly negative 14
get of the tablet in order turtles and a
comment about the bottom you know sorry
- amar subdial normally as a myriad
added by some people by just around so
it says disturbing emotions are
destroyed by insight grounded income
abiding so a sign that one has attained
inside every passion is that one is
one's ability to transform afflictive
emotions into wisdom and so if we can't
transform them and then we have not
attained the passion so we realize the
true nature of the afflictive emotions
which actually happens on really under
secret mantra path so according to
individual liberation and the
Bodhisattva path without rejecting the
afflictions and without even
transforming them they are directly
recognized and thereby transformed into
wisdom of primordial wisdom and so that
really is the view of my passion on that
is grounded in schemata calm abiding
then it says knowing this cultivate
meditative concentration that purely
transcends the four formless absorptions
so those four formless absorptions first
there is the absorption called infinite
space so first you meditate and you look
at the nature of the mind and this space
like experience arises you feel that
your mind is really like infinite space
so there is this very subtle grasping
that is present you enter in a very
subtle grasping of conceptualizing
thinking that mind is really like infant
space and although it is true that the
nature of mind is infinite like space it
becomes an obscuration to really
realizing the nature of the mind because
we cling or we grass
we have this concept of mind is like
infinite space and that is why the
consciousness is not yet completely
liberated into primordial wisdom so the
consciousness is the one who creates all
of samsara and Nirvana so then one one
let's go of that grasping that it's like
space but then one realizes this
consciousness is so fast it creates all
of samsara and Nirvana consciousness is
infinite and so that's then the the next
grasping that arises this concept of
thinking consciousness is infinite it
really is infinite and while it is
infinite the concept of it grasping at
this concept is still a grasping thought
so that's the second absorption infinite
consciousness and then transcending that
fixation one moves up to the third
absorption which is nothing whatsoever
for example in Maha mudra we are told
without a single thought
look decisively at the ultimate nature
of the mind so then one might think that
it is just fine if I you know this being
said it is fine if I just stay there
without thinking anything and even that
in itself is a very subtle form of
grasping this also is a concept so then
you realize that and you transcend that
concept too and you come to the fourth
absorption which is called neither
existing or non existing so then that
again is an understanding that is based
on those words that
one has heard for example teen words as
explained according to the madhyama kata
middle way that tell you don't grasp at
the existence of things and do nots
crass but the non-existence of things so
don't grasp at existence or nonexistence
it snyder
so then you think that i can't just stay
without grasping at either existence or
nonexistence and then again because it's
based on this intellectual understanding
you enter into a very subtle grasping so
now the grasping is extremely subtle but
you enter into it into this grasping and
therefore it this grasping becomes an
obscure ation to your practice it's a
very subtle feeling it is that it is not
appearances that bind you but it's your
grasping at them that find you and so
first we allow the mind therefore to
settle down so it becomes like pure
water so there's no grasping and when
there is no grasping then a real
understanding arises but then the moment
we begin to enter into grasping even in
a very subtle way again we cannot really
understand the nature of the mind and so
this is really what we call this very
subtle obscuration to omniscience to
knowing the true nature of the mind and
again that's something that can both
ends in will explain to you more but so
these are the four kinds of meditative
of a formless absorptions it is infinite
space infinite consciousness nothing
whatsoever and neither existence nor
non-existence
and so these gradually may arise
throughout one's practice and then these
are the kind of grasping thoughts that
one might enter into and so it says
knowing this one should cultivate
meditative concentration that
purely transcends those four formulas
absorptions this is the way of a
bodhisattva so even if you if you do not
transcend them even if you enter those
four formless absorptions it still
actually leads to birth in the higher
realms it's still according to the
Dharma is considered to be a good
quality you for example take birth as a
god like you know six realms as a desire
God and so on so you still find the
qualities of the higher realms but it
still prevents you from attaining the
ultimate state of enlightenment so it
does become an obscure ation to the
attainment of enlightenment so so this
is as much as I can explain experience
[Music]
there is hydrogen energy of similar
nature body she bought some of the magic
God colleges to determine what is the
biomass and coastal research the zero
teamollie Nepal Madrid majority algae
Natasha Natasha Maharaja yoga which are
represented by jardin de morangias
yet another Kona Community College are
surrounded or which are open
nons jung da-jung total test coverage
imagine this for Rama Lama taking my
chariot symbol there are some time
traveller eternity just time authority
around me it's a long-term energy
Ramayana there was something about you
say Ron Young wanna know our department
because it's a choice or a larger job or
series so these experiences of these
four formulas absorptions they do arise
so especially if one is at meditation a
practitioner now these experiences will
arise in our practice but the point is
now how do we deal with them and they do
arise so the point is to not neither
reject them nor accept them but to just
remain still inmate ation so each of
those experiences that arise as each of
those feelings that arises actually
these experiences often arise as a
quality of calm abiding they come along
with calm abiding they're connected to
this aspect of stable team of calm
abiding so the instruction is that when
anything arises grasping thought arises
it says that do not try to accomplish
abiding and do not try to reject the
movements of the mind the thoughts so do
not even engage in the most saddest of
thoughts but also do not reject whatever
awry
so you stay in this um loose natural
state without thinking that a thought is
something undesirable and it's reject
that just feel that whatever arise let
it arise that arise anything that maim
but do not engage in it do not develop
this fixation of I want this experience
again and again for example don't
develop that kind of thought and
whatever else arises
don't try to reject an undesirable
thought so not rejecting it means to let
it be as it is just naturally it arises
and if we go away on its own just like a
wave from water through habituation so
later on as you keep practicing
eventually it will just naturally
dissolve so it begins with understanding
that and knowing how to do that then it
becomes an experience secondly so then
you you practice that and it becomes a
personal experience experience how when
the thought arises and you just let it
be on its own naturally you observe how
it dissolves on its own into itself just
like a wave dissolving into the water so
that's the experience that takes
practice for a long time and that leads
to realization and that is of course a
little bit difficult in the beginning it
requires a long time a practice and
sometimes also it happens when really
authentic schoolroom with compassion
comes together with an authentic
disciple with devotion and sometimes
there is no I'm doubt within the mind
sometimes even the subtlest of doubts
naturally arises in the mind and then
you just let it be naturally and that's
the only way you can really deal with it
and you have to let it be
and allow it to dissolve on its own it
is very difficult to instantly just make
it disappear so it requires some time
and practice
so here transcending the formless
absorptions in brief the instruction
here is do not reject what arises and do
not try to accomplish deliberately
abiding just let it all beam
even the slightest sensation of feeling
that arises let it all be as it is and
allow it to resolve on its own sake no
deterioration sorry
tienes una Sola Mira sandesh vamos a
estar pasando por que una parte de Juan
Nicasio an oncologist
tears are comes from dr. V or a certain
zone yo so dr. Kagame even sovereignity
Toma Toma religious our finished average
to 3 meter then you recited emergency no
charge no more partisan or service and
forcing more than civilians watch Geneva
so Hawkinson about our
childbirth Tara no cotton cotton Sara
tell Marty Haagen Dazs
rudderless ronzo this might appeal
another sim Ronzoni las rosas batalla de
nada each adamant Napoleonic rely on my
W no sooner did our hapless challenger
that is Rita some fraternity single
solid sodium view of a passion our
special insight it's related to deem
single pointedness of Mohammed rod is
this the state of single-mindedness
regarding that milarepa had said when
your remain in the clarity of mind
without grasping allowing all thoughts
to dissolve into themselves then you
recognize the spontaneously existing
luminous state and this clarity which
recognizes that and that is the
completion of single Quan Donna's so
Clara team remaining with Clara team is
to be fully aware of the thought free
emptying space like minds to clearly
know that the - emptiness is clear
consciousness so that is what we call
this unity of clarity and emptiness
unity means that they are not separate
indivisible so that is the nature of
clarity is emptiness the nature of
emptiness is clarity a smaller example
is it is like a fire flame and a larger
example is it's like space so even
though the nature of the mind is like
space we don't recognize that and if we
don't recognize that
we are sentient beings the Samantabhadra
Prayer says if you recognize it you are
a Buddha not recognizing it you are a
sentient being wandering in samsara so
when you recognize it then you know now
I have seen it this clarity and
emptiness clear and empty awareness you
recognize it clearly when you let go of
all grasping at any true existence of
whatever arises and you just applied
within clear awareness and even interest
an instant you glimpse the space like
nature of the mind so at that moment
when you abide within this space like
state there is no thought at all of it
either being this or being or not being
that there is no not even the slightest
feeling of it is infinite space or it is
infinite consciousness and so this lack
of grasping comes from allowing the mind
to rest naturally and so that is what
was meant with the spontaneous existence
of the mind which is the self arisen
nature of the mind for example this is
how it is referred to in the seven
verses of supplication to tarah for
protection deem a self arisen mind that
is non dual primordial wisdom it says in
that text so a sign that the mind itself
arisen is that it is like space and
within space there is no duality or
division wherever you go in the universe
there is no duality in space so when so
this this actual view of the passion on
or inside into the nature of the mind
arises when you let go of all grasping
whatsoever the garbage about Revati are
they wrong
the muscle memory some cameras some
fashion from Los Angeles California so
modulus of tolerance paternalism robbery
tone each other each other each
completed under each other's
in gg7 bottom dollar - at initial data
on neutral multi determines touch
majority of them their transient
somewhat instructor Don Chaney but
sometimes anybody from Eva Eva not order
which item January 13 for Germany but
the geometry parrots on thought Robert
Uncle Bob Costas Toronto Pearson whereas
to associate a marathon total sums of
anonymity mobile hot attractive the
reachable tentatively 30 long tormentors
to what I shall create the shrapnel draw
glory
Sheila
and so then why is it and that despite
our practice still those subtle grasping
thoughts do arise in our mind it is
because we have not eliminated self
grasping after for Mara's this is
referred to as City the mahram of self
conceit and so for as long as there is
this demon of self-grasping present we
will always develop all sorts of doubts
so at this point therefore we must first
make a greater effort in the training in
bodhichitta and petroleum budget said
that meditation is to unify them to join
the empty mind with compassion and that
is the purpose of all meditation
practices starting with taking refuge
and then on the path of altruism and
cultivating bodhichitta there is not a
single fault that does not arise from
self-grasping so my partner Robert
really said was that instead of making a
great effort in meditating on emptiness
you should make a greater effort in
cultivating compassion and this is
actually mentioned in many of the other
scriptures as well and so that is
because when you cultivate compassion
the very nature of compassion is
emptiness
so when compassion for others arises at
that moment you should look at the state
of your mind there is no concept of a
self at that moment so the moment when
you think of others you're not thinking
of herself and when this concept of a
self arises then you are not thinking
about others so that's the quality that
the Buddha had realized so practice our
meditation means to unify the empty mind
we
compassion and this is often also why
many beginning practitioners grown tired
of practice even though they make the
greatest part in meditation calm abiding
and looking at the nature of the mind of
my passion um they still get tired of it
because they lack the basis of love and
compassion so a true authentic state of
a passion is one where you are free of
any doubts so first you must have an
understanding of this authentic with
passion I have a real understanding and
trust in that secondly you must gain an
experience that means you have to
practice it over and over again in all
your daily activities you must train the
mind you must train the mind them as the
thoughts and the afflictions arise and
then finally there's realization and
that is and through the training through
experience that leads into realization
which is an unchanging state and at that
point no circumstance can affect your
one or the other way any longer for
example in the magical ayah practice
that many of you do it says made a
fortress after view we gained so first
you understand the view then secondly
maybe abyss of meditation be crossed so
that is you cross the abyss of
meditation or this dangerous path of
meditation by applying the practice in
your day-to-day activities and then
thirdly it says may and the life force
of the conduct be seized so so then when
understanding of that arises when you
apply things in your conduct then it
leads to realization and stability so
these words of the vajrakilaya actually
are a very meaningful and they really
show the ultimate meaning of the passion
or
- insight into the nature of the mind
and also ultimately what we passion is
is compose Simmons voila remember its
own laws Lawrence is an authority they
shall surely perish budget autonomy
recovering until the tribunal personal
drama such abomination degenerates
important election rallies dodging
Arizona municipal cemetery semi
concealer around your data
another donut it's a solid sedan next is
perfection of wisdom and that is really
the ultimate fruition of calm abiding so
it says without wisdom the other five
are not enough to reach complete
enlightenment
thus combined with skillful means
develop the wisdom that does not
distinguish among the three spheres this
is the way of a bodhisattva
so without wisdom it is said the other
five perfections are just like being a
blind person so when you hear that and
you might think that so all of the
things I have practiced until now are
just empty and mean nothing done but
that's also not true because the 84,000
Dharma teachings are all taught in order
to attain enlightenment so that in other
words means that they are only taught in
order to realize this perfection of
wisdom all for that purpose
they are all a method for that to arise
like those three methods for bodhichitta
to arise where it has not arisen to not
let it explain where it has has arisen
and to further increase it Tibet the
method to further increase it is the
practices of the secret mantra and so
all the practices that all the
parameters are for the sake of finally
realizing wisdom to perfect wisdom the
Buddha had perfected wisdom had realized
the nature of the mind actually the
meaning of all of that is contained in
the Heart Sutra for example the meaning
of the perfection of wisdom and actually
when you read it over and over again
then the meaning of that will really
arise within your mind the Heart Sutra
for instance the perfection of wisdom
speaks of emptiness and so then when you
read that what falls apart are these
fixations of things really exist
that's real all these subtle and coarse
thoughts that arise in our mind even the
subtle thoughts of clinging to very
small thought and just thinking this is
how it is or to have certain doubts in
the mind for as long as we perceive a
duality of self and other there are
doubts in the mind and out itself is
just a thought so when you really
understand the perfection of wisdom when
that is accomplished then a sign of that
is that all doubts will disappear
there's no more doubt
so it says combined with skillful means
so as we mentioned before there is those
dream skillful means to make it a rise
to not let it decline and so on so what
the actual skillful means is actually
compassion and when compassion arises
then self-grasping is naturally absent
so when real immeasurable love an
immeasurable compassion arise then
skillful means has been combined with
wisdom and so then combined with
skillful means one develops the wisdom
that does not distinguish among the
three spheres somebody engages about she
became a partisan Raja Ravi so much I'm
totally change personality
[Music]
da-da-da-da-da we were always cut from
each other's knowledge generation
by two voltages on guitar scientists and
so such of seven students are chosen the
development of such notions of our age
comfortable no such of serious company
would
hobby analogy do you talk to the top um
gee you know
so first I'm through love and compassion
the four immeasurables self-grasping
disappears then once that has
disappeared then you look at the nature
of others and then when you look at them
from that state they naturally become
empty so that's the skillful means and
then the wisdom that does not
distinguish among the three spheres is
that all phenomena of samsara and
Nirvana self and other are empty of self
nature all appearance is just that
display of mind when one realizes the
nature of the mind one sees it just like
that as just and a display of the mind
itself like a reflection and when it
when that is perfect that it becomes the
perfection of wisdom
so the 84,000 Dharma teachings are all
included within bodhichitta in and that
is included within ultimate bodhichitta
and in order to realize the ultimate
bodhichitta the teachings on the
relative bodhichitta at heart so the
relative bodhichitta is a skillful means
to realize ultimate bodhichitta when we
take the refuge vow no we are told top
you know this is the master this is the
skillful means and so from there on all
practice has become a skillful means to
realize that
or angel eyes